Now I'll show you a different way to
add the button to the graphical user
interface, directly from the Java code,
not from the XML file.
So we won't need this line anymore because
the view won't be defined in the layout.
We will create the resource
directly from the Java code.
And I moved to the XML file to delete
this definition of the button.
Okay.
Let's go back to the Java code.
Now, I need to create
the button directly from here.
So, buttonPink, that's a new button.
I need to provide a context for that.
That would be the application context.
After that,
I can define a couple of characteristics
of the button such as the text color for
instance,
buttonPink.settextcolor.
I think the color was black.
Okay, there is a constant in the color
class already defined for the black color,
but we need to set
the background color as well.
Set background color.
And here,
since we didn't use a standard color,
I'll use the first color
method from the color class,
which allows us to use
the same definition as before.
So it was F, T.
Let me check.
90, F3, okay.
So that was our pink background.
Okay, and
now I'm ready to add this to the layout.
I accept that I need
a reference to the layout in order
to be able to add my button to it.
So let's go back to the XML file.
And here you see that we
don't have an ID yet.
So let's add one.
AndroidID and.
Let's call it, I don't know,
relativeLayoutMainScreen.
Okay.
Now that we set an ID for
the relative layout,
I can go back to the Java code,
retrieve a reference to this layout.
So I'll create a relative
layout variable called,
relativeLayout mainScreen.
And again, I can use the findViewById
method to retrieve it.
So it was relativeLayout_myScreen.
I need to cast that in order to
transfer meeting to a related layout.
Okay.
And now I can just choose add
child method, the addView method,
sorry, to add the ping
button to this layout.
buttonPink.
Okay, since the button is not defined
in the XML file anymore, if you look at
the Design View, in the preview,
you won't see the pink button anymore.
So let's try the new code on the emulator.
Okay, so the pink button is here,
but we are missing the the text.
It's not at the right location.
It should be below the blue one.
The width should match
the one on the screen.
So lets go back to the code and fix that.
So first, let me add the text for
the button.
buttonPink that set text, it should read,
The Pink Panther's To Do List.
All right.
And next, we need to make the view larger.
So that's a little more tricky here.
We need to create a layout parameters.
So, that's relativeLayout.layoutParams.
Okay, let's call them params.
So it's a new
RelativeLayout params.
Okay, so the first one is that we want
the button width to match the parent.
So, that's RelativeLayout.LayoutParams.
So there is a constant for
that called the MATCH_PARENT.
Okay, so that the width of the button and
the second that the eighth of the button,
because that's mandatory to define buff.
So relative layout.
And for
the second we'll use will be WRAP_CONTENT.
Okay.
So that defines the size of our button.
And now we need to decide on
the position of the button,
in relation with the position
of the blue button.
So we need to add a new
rule to our parameter.
It's addRule.
We want to set the below rule.
To be equal to,
it should be below buttonBlue.
So I need to get the ID
of the blue button.
And when I add the button
to the relative layout,
I just add the second parameter, which
is the params that I've just created.
Okay, let's try this new version.
Okay, so
it looks exactly like we wanted it to.
And if I click on the pink button,
I have the pop up, and
if I click on the blue
button it disappears.
In this video I've shown you how to
include a button to your graphical user
interface.
The first solution is to define
the button directly into the XML file.
You can use a graphical design tool to
visualize the interface as you build it.
The second solution is more
indicated when you can't define
a static graphical user interface.
When you decide which views to include
on your screen only during run time.
In that case, you can define
the button directly into the Java
code using the button construct tool.
Next, can you set properties
such as background color or
the text, using methods
associated with the view object.
After that, you need to retrieve
a reference to the parent layout.
And then you can call the addView
method on each to add the buttons to
the parent layout.
If you need to define additional layout
parameter, to position the view,
or to set its width, then you do so
by defining, by creating,
a layoutParams object, and then you can
provide this object to the addView method.
To attach an action to a button, the first
solution is to indicate the name of
the method to call in the onClick
property of the button in the XML file.
Then, in the Java file, you define
the method with the public void signature,
in the parameter view.
This parameter indicates the view
which triggered the method call.
The second solution is to,
in the Java code,
to retrieve a reference to the button
using the findViewByID method.
Then you associate a listener with this
button using the set
onClickListener method.
And last, you need to define the onClick
method toward the class which implements
the onClick list.